[CAM-11107] Article for Cloud Academy regarding Context Switcher (#2735)
CenturyLinkCloud/PublicKB: Cloud Application Manager/Core Concepts/context-switcher.md

{{{
"title": "Detailing Cloud Application Manager's Context Switcher",
"date": "05-20-2019",
"author": "Sergio Quintana",
"attachments": [],
"contentIsHTML": false,
"keywords": ["workspaces", "organizations", "cost centers", "context switcher"]
}}}

**In this article:**

* [Overview](#overview)
* [Audience](#audience)
* [Prerequisites](#prerequisites)
* [Introduction](#introduction)
* [Sections](#sections)
* [Creating a new scope](#creating-a-new-scope)
* [Contacting Cloud Application Manager Support](#contacting-cloud-application-manager-support)

### Overview

This article is meant to give a definition of Cloud Application Manager’s Context Switcher and an explanation of its features. Before reading this article, a previous knowledge of [organizations, cost centers and workspaces](workspaces-and-collaboration.md) is recommended. 

### Audience

Cloud Application Manager users.

### Prerequisites

An active Cloud Application Manager account.

### Introduction

> Context Switcher is a tool located within the Global Navigation bar of Cloud Application Manager, and allows users changing between different scopes they have access to, be they Organizations, Cost Centers or Workspaces, so they can use and create different resources depending on the scope they have selected.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Context Switcher is a tool located within the Global Navigation bar of Cloud Application Manager, which allows users to change the scope they want to work with, among the available scopes they have access to, being their Organizations, Cost Centers and Workspaces. Once a scope or context is selected through the context switcher,  the user will see and manage the resources pertaining to that scope and dependant scopes.
```

![Context Switcher - General View](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher.png)

> It provides at a glance all the necessary information so that users know in which scope they are situated at every moment. Thus, this component offers the following data when collapsed:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It provides at a glance all the necessary information so that users know in which scope they are working at every moment. Thus, this component offers the following data when collapsed:
```

> * Kind of Scope (in blue)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Kind of Scope** (in blue)
```

> * Scope’s icon/avatar (in red)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Scope’s icon/avatar** (in red)
```

> * Scope’s hierarchy (in green)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Scope’s hierarchy** (in green)
```

![Context Switcher - In Detail](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-detail.png)

### Sections

> Clicking on the context switcher will create an overlay with extended information and functionality, and divided into different sections, which correspond to scope types (Organizations, Cost Centers and Workspaces), apart from a Favorites section:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Clicking on the context switcher will create an overlay with extended information and functionality. It is divided into different sections, which correspond to scope types (**Organizations**, **Cost Centers** and **Workspaces**), apart from the **Favorites** section:
```

Reviewer: Please, add a mention to the hierarchical behavior of scopes

![Context Switcher - Main View](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-general.png)

#### Search bar

> This will let users search for a concrete scope they have access to. It is important to highlight that results will be different depending on which kind of scope the user has selected, so it won’t be possible to seek for a scope not belonging to the active section so, for example, when the Organization section is selected, only organizations are searched.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This will let users search for a concrete scope they have access to. It is important to highlight that results will be different depending on which kind of scope the user has selected, so it won’t be possible to find a scope not belonging to the active section so, for example, when the Organization section is selected, only organizations are searched.
```

![Context Switcher - Search Bar](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-search-bar.png)

#### Selection menu

> There are several selectable options here depending on user's permissions (organization administrators can see Organizations and Cost Centers options while cost center administrators could only see their associated Cost Centers), and apart from the different kinds of scopes (Organizations, Cost Centers and Workspaces), there is also a Favorites option, which allows to store together those scopes marked as favorites by the user. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are several selectable options here depending on user's permissions (organization administrators can see **Organizations** and **Cost Centers** options while cost center administrators could only see their associated Cost Centers), and apart from the different kinds of scopes (Organizations, Cost Centers and Workspaces), there is also a **Favorites** option, which shows together those scopes (of any kind) marked as favorites by the user. 
```

![Context Switcher - Selection Menu](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-selection-menu.png)

#### Main view

> When an option is selected, main view displays all available scopes of selected kind for a given user, and depending on that kind of scope some differences arise:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a scope type is selected, the main view displays all available scopes of the selected kind for a given user, and depending on that kind of scope some differences arise:
```
In general, I don't like it too much when you say scope `option`. I'd rather use `type`, `kind` or even `tab`. Please, review usage in all the doc.

> ***Organizations view***: displays all the organizations the user has access to, and allows him or her to switch between them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Organizations view
Displays all the organizations the user has access to and allows him or her to switch between them.
```

![Context Switcher - Organizations View](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-org-view.png)

> Every organization, as seen in the previous image, has several elements: name and icon of the organization, a star to mark it (or unmark if already marked) as a favorite, and a pencil (when hovered) to edit its details.

Author: @sunew yes, but only for team workspaces. I'll add that to the article.
For the rest of types if a user can see the scope, can edit it.

> Every organization, as seen in the previous image, has several elements: name and icon of the organization, a star to mark it (or unmark if already marked) as a favorite, and a pencil (when hovered) to edit its details.

Reviewer: The pencil button `to edit its settings` better.

![Context Switcher - Organizations Detail](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-org-detail.png)

> ***Cost Centers view***: this view introduces a left side panel where all the organizations the user has access to are listed, so it can be used as a filter. By default, the *All* option is selected, so every cost center depending on that organizations will be displayed in the main view. Selecting another organization, therefore, will show only its associated cost centers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Cost Centers view
This view introduces a left side panel where all the organizations the user has access to are listed, so it can be used as a filter. By default, the *All* option is selected, so every cost center depending on that organizations will be displayed in the main view. Selecting another organization, therefore, will show only its associated cost centers.
```

![Context Switcher - Cost Centers View](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-cc-view.png)

As happened with organizations, a cost center will not only display its name and icon, the favorite star and the editing pencil button (when hovered), but also the icon of the organization it belongs to (bottom left) and the number of members it has (bottom right).

![Context Switcher - Cost Centers Detail](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-cc-detail.png)

> ***Workspaces view***: the most complete view corresponds to workspaces’ because it includes, apart from an organizations panel, a cost centers panel next to it with the same functionality explained for the last section: to act like a filter. This way only associated workspaces of a given cost center will appear.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Workspaces view
The most complete view corresponds to *workspaces* because it includes, apart from an organizations panel, a cost centers panel next to it with the same functionality explained for the last section: to act as a filter. This way only associated workspaces of a given cost center will appear.
```

![Context Switcher - Workspaces View](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-ws-view.png)

> It is important to remark that workspaces can be divided into personal and team workspaces. Personal workspaces cannot be created manually and are associated to a given user unlike team workspaces, which can be easily created (if having proper permissions) and many users can be added to them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is important to remark that workspaces can be divided into personal and team workspaces. 

* **Personal workspaces** are associated with a given user and cannot be created manually. It is the private space for a user to hold its own resources.
* **Team workspaces** can be easily created (if the user has proper permissions) and many users can be added to them as members with different access rights. A team workspace serves as a collaborative space where users can share their resources and collaborate on them.
```

> A personal workspace shows its name and user’s avatar, apart from its associated organization and cost center, and the star button to be marked (or unmarked) as a favorite; while a team workspace differs in displaying the team’s icon, as well as the members added to that workspace, and is able to be edited if the pencil button is clicked while hovering over the scope. But, unlike what happened with other scope types there are several kinds of members for a team workspace (Visitor, User, Author and Administrator), being only those holding an Administrator role the ones with edition permissions. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A personal workspace shows its name and user’s avatar, apart from its associated organization and cost center, and the star button to be marked (or unmarked) as a favorite; while a team workspace differs in displaying the team’s icon, as well as the number of members added to that workspace, and provides the pencil button while hovering over the scope to access the workpsace settings. But, unlike what happened with other scope types there are several kinds of members for a team workspace (Visitor, User, Author and Administrator), being only those holding an Administrator role the ones with edit settings permissions. 
```

![Context Switcher - Workspaces Detail](../../images/cloud-application-manager/context-switcher-ws-detail.png)

> ***Favorites view***: it displays all the scopes the user has marked as his/her favorites using the star button at the top left of the scopes. As mentioned before, there is no distinction between scope type here, so all of them appear together and can be sorted by dragging and dropping the different elements.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
##### Favorites view
It displays all the scopes the user has marked as his/her favorites using the star button at the top left of each scope. As mentioned before, there is no distinction between scope type here, so all of them appear together and can be sorted in this view by dragging and dropping the different elements.
```
